# Purpose of the Work
This project involves analyzing the NASA database of astronauts who have traveled in the last 10 years.

The database contains various fields that distinguish astronauts: name, age, nationality, gender, flight hours, and year of expedition. By rearranging this data, we can discern interesting aspects about these individuals and the data in general, especially in three major themes. The first is gender, the second is profession, and the third is about the two largest nations participating in these expeditions, the USA and USSR/Russia, which continue to engage in a constant struggle despite being in a downward or colder trend.

We present this in the 4 graphs found in the index. Below, we will explain what they represent and how we arrived at them:

*Graph 1* - Gender Gap in Space: In this case, we decided to use a bar graph to display the number of astronauts each year, distinguishing them by gender using different colors. We found it interesting to show it this way to highlight the low number of female astronauts at a glance. Additionally, we added a line to indicate and show that the maximum is only 6 and it was a one-time occurrence 10 years ago. Finally, an idea we had but couldn't implement due to technical knowledge was to add the number of female astronauts or the percentage of women over the total on each bar.

*Graph 2* - The Cold Space Race?: In exploration, before reaching these two graphs, we attempted with lines. We found it very empty and that the area represented the large number of hours of each nation better. Additionally, we thought of using the second graph to show that one country "dominated" the other and that it remained so until a certain point. The bar in the second graph seemed like a good element to highlight that there was a change in who has more hours from a certain point onwards. Finally, to ensure that after 2017, once the overlap changes, the line of Russia can still be followed, we used opacity as a resource.

*Graph 3* - What do Astronauts Study?: For this graph, we aimed to be simpler by using fewer elements. We also have a bar graph, but limited to the 5 occupations with a concise subtitle. On the other hand, we intentionally did not order the bars as we thought it better to highlight with color the 2 occupations with the most astronauts rather than their order. We decided to only put the grid on the Y axis to estimate the quantities and not on the X axis because it does not provide information.

*Graph 4* - Is the United States the Only One with Women in Space?: In this case, there was a transformation and data filtering to compare the United States against the rest of the countries to highlight, over the total, the number of female astronauts and how many of them belong to the United States (the majority). Again, we used colors to distinguish by gender and only two bars and the grid on the Y axis to compare them. This graph is a good combination of the themes of Graphs 1 and 2.

*Extras* - In all graphs, we tried to keep colors in the titles and subtitles to avoid using unnecessary legends. On the other hand, in some graphs, we took more liberty when writing subtitles and highlighting data, while in others, we aimed to be more concise.
